\section{Introduction} \label{sec:intro}
Recently individuals are more aware of their private data, specifically when
used by third-parties. In light of the Cambridge Analytica scandal with
Facebook~\cite{granville_2018, welch_2018} users are more aware of the private
data they are giving to third parties, and are beginning to realize the effect
their data can have.

However, users still value certain tools and services that require data. To
reconcile this discrepancy various projects have worked on methods of
delivering results on private data.

In this paper we analyze various techniques which are commonly used in tools
with privacy in mind. We examine tools which allow for private contact
discovery~\cite{demmler2018pir, borisov2015dp5}, private analysis of
data~\cite{erlingsson2014rappor}, private computation of
data~\cite{bogetoft2009secure}, anonymous
communication~\cite{wolinsky2012dissent}, and verifiable private
computation~\cite{ben2013snarks, parno2013pinocchio}. Additionally, we review
the concepts of secure computation~\cite{yao1982protocols, lindell2005secure}
and differential privacy~\cite{dwork2008differential}.

The rest of this paper is structured as follows: Section~\ref{sec:priv} will
discuss tools which focus on privacy and anonymity,
Section~\ref{sec:computation} will discuss the notion of secure computation on
private data, as well as examine the notion of verifiable computation in private
settings, Section~\ref{sec:diff} will explore the concept of differential
privacy, and finally Section~\ref{sec:conclusion} will conclude with a
discussion on future work in these areas.